---
layout: post
title: "The Need for a VPN"
description: "About"
categories:
  - Edge Case
tags:
  - Trackers
  - Medium
---

# Virtual Private Networks


## What is a VPN?

A VPN extends a private network across a public network, enabling users to send and receive data across shared or public networks as if their computing devices were directly connected to the private network.

Imagine this: You're in a coffee shop and they have free (unsecured) WiFi. You can browse without needing a password, but so can everyone else. With the right tools, anyone could intercept your data. An easy (and cheap) way to prevent this, is the use of a VPN. The VPN hides your computer from others on the network, and allows you to continue using the WiFi securely.

## Are VPNs difficult to set up?

No! Many companies provide VPN services with easy to install apps for computers and phones. Simply download the app, create an account, click connect, and you're ready to go!

## How do I choose a provider?

### Free or paid?

* Free VPN services (like other free services) need to make money somehow. These companies usually serve you advertisements. You never know what else they might do to make enough money to operate.
* Paid services can cover operation costs through your monthly or yearly subscription. Don't worry, this usually comes out to about $3 a month.

### Country of operation

* Different countries have different laws on privacy. Depending on what country your provider operates from, they might be obligated to collect and share your data with their government.
* Countries with pro-consumer privacy laws are Switzerland, Iceland, Panama, to name a few. Look for a VPN that operates out of these!

### When do I use a VPN?

* If you've got an easy-to-use service, you should be able to leave it on at all times. This ensures that you're protected from snoopers no matter where you are or what website you visit.

### What are the drawbacks?

* Your internet speed might take a slight dip. Depending on the provider, this dip is usually negligible.
* Some (very few) services won't work with a VPN. The only ones I've ran across so far are some banking apps.

### What do we recommend?

* We use NordVPN because they are affordable, reliable, and secure. Learn more about them [here](https://go.nordvpn.net/aff_c?offer_id=15&aff_id=21323).
